[Music]
But to answer your question, I'm drinking a Trader Joe's cranberry and lime juice organic
seltzer.
Ah, that sounds good.
Never had that.
Just a splash of juice.
It's like their version of spin drift.
That's what I was just going to think.
Yeah.
How about yin's?
I'm drinking a Pamplemousse and now a Highland Park 12 year scotch on the
rocks with water.
Holy shit.
Yeah.
It was a gift from my brother for Christmas, I think.
Good gift.
Thanks, man.
How is it?
It's a little peaty for my taste, but it's still good.
Scotch, which I used to hate until the last year, for me it breaks down to like peaty stuff
and not peaty stuff.
It's a little pittier, but it's good.
Drinking it.
Also, give so few shits about anything right now.
It's just fine.
I think you just added a level of sophistication though because I could hear the clanking of
the ice and the glass, which just immediately exuded this sort of like your feet up in
like a very carpeted, hoggany wood office, making power deals.
You know how I do?
I do.
Why?
I can't easily imagine that.
It is like a proper drink glass, but everything else around me and me is not proper.
The art of the deal.
Yeah, unfortunately I have nothing very exciting that I'm drinking.
So I, uh, I likewise have, I don't have pomple moose.
I have, um, oldies, grapefruit, pomple moose, er, lequah, knock off.
Uh, bell, bell V.
Bill Biv Devove.
Is it good?
Yeah, how does it compare?
I think I would have trouble tasting telling the difference.
Like if I took the Pepsi challenge, I don't think I would be able to tell the difference.
Right.
But that's how all the works.
Like all of their knock off stuff is like just almost perfect.
Like they have the knock off Girl Scout cookies are, I know I would not be able to tell the difference.
I fucked some of those up on that last camping or cabin trip.
Those were delicious.
Doasty doves, I believe.
Oh yeah, you were the one that brought those.
Oh yeah.
Tore them up.
And it tasted just like Girl Scout cookies.
I mean, it was like, if someone had like taken them out of the box and handed them to me and
been like, here's some Girl Scout cookies, I wouldn't believe them.
Yeah, I had the real deal a couple months back and I even remembered that.
I was like, oh no, those are dead fucking on.
I mean, if I got the chance to buy Girl Scout cookies, I will because I'm not going to take
money out of the Girl Scout cookies, troops.
But they don't sell them all year or at least they're not available to me all year.
It gets me by from one sale to the next.
Why don't they just sell them all year?
I'm sure they're good or whatever answers for that, but it's always like, why do they do it once a year?
It seems.
I honestly don't.
It might be--
It's a trijate demand.
Yeah.
It's a novelty like Girl Scout cookie.
Yeah, it's a thing.
It's a plant man.
Man.
The art of a deal.
Is that what you're doing now?
Like, yes.
The barringer of Girl Scout cookies.
I have another laptop to my right that's black and it's actually where I'm just configuring
the world ruination with the Girl Scouts right now.
Nice.
Well, you're doing a great job, by the way.
Thank you.
The world is accessible right now.
It is.
Is it fucking shit shit?
I guess we should let our listeners know that we are all social distancing the highest order.
We're all in three different locations.
Yeah.
If you're wondering why the audio sounds shittier than its normal shit level, that is why.
That's why we are multi-tracking through Discord.
Yeah.
We cannot see each other.
Oh, it's just a lot of other audacity is running.
And it's weird.
I'm envisioning all of us being naked right now in our computer chairs.
Oh, yeah.
Of course.
Except for Nick, who's in a power suit.
Still oiled and naked underneath it though.
Ready to just burst out of it.
Freshly waxed.
Oh, yeah.
Well, oiled.
I have like the Bateman hair.
I haven't cut my hair in a while.
All my hair is insane right now.
I put so much crap into it today just to try to like get it under control.
Because not only is it like getting wild, it's like insanely humid right now.
So it's just a giant afro.
Right.
I'm in a similar boat only instead of my hair.
It is my beard.
It is.
It is just it's like a rainbow of brown under my face.
It's just sticking out in every direction.
And also on top of that, like I mean besides like not making any amount of care of it.
Like I don't comb it or even like bother to like sort of like put it in like a normal beard shave.
I just wake up and like, yeah, that's what it's doing today.
As you should.
Yeah.
I mean, even right now, I mean, why would I have bothered to, you know, make myself up.
You sit in front of my computer and stare at Audacity waveforms.
Yeah, that's exactly what I'm looking at.
It's very entrancing.
I had my minimize.
Oh, yeah, that's pretty cool.
Mm hmm.
Nice.
So this episode is just going to be us staring at waveforms.
Were you saying something?
Only you guys could see this.
Mine's slightly different.
See the things I've seen.
So this is this is Roy speech and Blade Runner.
Yes.
There's an outtake that where he before he adds this to the list of beautiful things that
he's seen before he does.
We need to dub that now.
Insert Blade Runner clip here.
So what have we all been digging on during our quarantine lockdown musical adventures?
I don't know if anything I'm digging on, but I have been getting a lot of stuff done.
But as far as like using ear, digging into stuff that I have already even more, I've
been doing a ton of that.
That's been the bulk of my time and quarantine is like work.
I almost said going to work.
It's downstairs.
Right.
But like working and then when that's done, I've got my apparent hand working on music
and sound and noise and digging into stuff that like I had used and tinker with and sort
of got like the general basic idea of but now I'm really diving into.
Yeah.
I feel like it kind of like comes and goes and waves for me.
At first, like for a few weeks, I couldn't even look at shit and then it would get like
super like I needed to use it as a release.
And that's how it's been a little lately.
Like this past week, I didn't do shit.
But today I use the ensemble oscillator, the four millisecond one for like a couple hours
and really dug in and had a lot of fun with that.
But yeah, it's going to mean the Enos Christ.
No, no, no, no.
No I did say it incorrectly and it's certainly the Enosk only ever.
But you know, the Enosk being what it is, being named the Enosk and not the other name.
Can you feel my glare through the internet?
It's even funnier because we can't see you now.
Right.
We just have to imagine it.
And like for some reason I'm just imagining like this anime version of Dave, like the
eyes are just slits, you know what I mean?
The face is all big, like yeah, like looming behind Nick as he's saying the word Enosk.
Oh, if we could make that happen, that's the next couple of years.
We'll be able to like have these avatars that are really nice and realistic that all
fucked up.
That'd be pretty cool.
But yeah, like you kind of said, Dave, digging into like existing shit and really just like
modular.
I've been super super just using the modular for everything except them.
Just a little bit of analog rhythm on the drums, but all modular fun, just loving the
fuck out of both cases lately.
So that's awesome.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, for me, I've been doing a lot of stuff.
I have the Deluge and the modular hooked up and right now that's all I'm using.
I mean, I use Ableton to record, but nothing else.
I really haven't turned any other sense at any other drum machines.
Like, and even when I'm like, oh, I need to make a drum sample, I need to make this.
I've just been making it and sampling it directly into Deluge.
I'm just adding it into it.
Nice.
Like having this sort of like tiny little ecosystem, everything has been pretty tidy and
quick.
Right, right.
That's the same.
It's been like, I can do everything I pretty much want to do with the mod.
Like, I can do a lot of the other things that I'm doing with the other stuff.
I'm just going to do a lot of stuff.
I mean, except for the squabble or squabble, it looks the one that starts with an SQ.
It's a good sample.
I think you've had basically every sampler except for that, right?
In the 301 yet.
Yeah.
Well, there's new ones that have hit now.
You know what I mean?
We have the rample.
Oh, right, right.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Which is appealing to me.
Except that it's mono and it doesn't do slicing from what I can tell.
At least not currently.
I don't know.
I'm really tempted by the Rossum, but people said that the slicing that it can do is pseudo-slicing
and is overly complicated using zones and things like that.
I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah."
That's a bit of a turnoff.
Now the new mini bitbox.
That's kind of appealing as well because that does everything that I wanted to do.
And it's smaller and cheaper.
That was pretty much my only complaint with the bitbox.
I felt like it was too big and too much for what I needed.
You know?
And now they have a smaller, simpler version.
I'm like, "Okay, that's kind of more up my alley."
But that's still pre-order, so I have to test it.
But it's on my hit list of things to try out in the near future.
But what if you're just putting off the inevitable?
Like, I feel like if you had gotten a 301 a couple years ago, you'd be an ace.
I know it like the back of my hand went on.
So you're just putting it off.
You're putting it off.
I mean, I definitely understand what you're saying.
It does look like a steep learning curve.
It does look like a daunting machine.
But at the same time, Nick is getting tons of use out of it.
So it seems like it's worth the risk.
Yeah, a lot of it too.
He's put a lot of time into making it a bunch easier to use over time too.
So I definitely, like you said, the Octatrack.
I use a percentage of what it can do.
And there are certain things that I really like to do with it.
The slicing is definitely one of its more powerful points.
Like once you get it, it's pretty easy to configure.
It's not like it's easiest recycle for me still or like other things I've used like that.
But it's still like definitely once you get the curve.
Like in the past couple months, I've just broken through where I use it way more than I used to even just because like that new looping shit that a dude made.
And like just some of the stuff that people make that makes it so much easier to use.
Like and he's like, yeah, it's, you should definitely get it.
A few sessions, if we would like sit down someday, if we could ever physically do that ever again in life.
And then if you just dig into like some of the new videos, I bet you would get it pretty quickly.
Yeah.
It's intriguing for sure.
The other thing that caught my eye lately is has me hesitant to buy another module for it is the Paulie N. Tracker.
That's on my list to talk about this evening as well.
Well, let's dive into it I think.
Yeah, it's kind of appealing to me as an alternative to sampling within modular.
The demos that I've seen so far of what it's capable of as like a slicer and things like that.
It seems kind of exactly what I want, you know, which I'm not going to be able to get out of a module.
Unless I was getting like the nerd seek, but that seems a little more complicated.
The nerd seek also seems a little cramped to me every time I've seen it or used it.
I always felt like, man, if this just like sort of like could breathe a little.
Everything about like the screen is just like one degree too small.
The Paulie N. Tracker is like, oh, that's what I wish the nerd seek was.
Yeah.
So until I get one, I think I'm going to hold off and buy another module.
I definitely want to try the tracker.
I'm not all that well versed in trackers.
It's never been my go to for writing music.
You know, I've always stuck with piano rolls and side scrolling stuff.
I'm the exact opposite.
Starting with Fast Tracker 2 in like late 90s and then going into ReNoise.
Used to shit out of trackers.
It's only been kind of recently that like I haven't been using them as much.
So and to me like that clicks with my brain infinitely more than horizontal piano roll sequencing.
See, I've tried like I've experimented with ReNoise a little bit and things like that.
It's just I don't know.
I never really jive with it.
I appreciate music that is made by it.
Some of my favorite like fast paced, break-or type music is all done on Tracker to the best of my knowledge.
Yeah.
And so like why I've never really dove that deeply into it.
I'm like even sure.
But it really cracked open with ReNoise because there was Octomed.
There was Fast Tracker and there was these sort of you had a sample and you had pitch.
You had these sort of like primitive ways to manipulate a sample and then the crux of it was that interface.
You know you've got these different channels and things are going down vertically and that was the main drive.
ReNoise though introduced so much, so many other dimensions to it.
And just even the way you can like fuck with samples and fuck with automation over time and all these different things.
ReNoise nailed it so it seemed like the Paulian Tracker.
I mean I know that it's more than ReNoise in a box but the fact that it's even that close it's very appealing.
For some reason like their interface just seems less scary to me than ReNoise.
Like just watching the demos I'm like okay I see what they're doing and it makes sense and I understand it.
Whereas most of the time I've looked at anyone using ReNoise or any other Tracker and I'm just I have no fucking clue what I'm looking at.
Well ReNoise did sort of make their interface a little bit more friendly over time because at first it really was copying all of the Tracker sort of paradigms.
So I mean things were in hex.
You had to kind of learn how to read it in the way that like it was kind of like using Unix.
At first it's daunting but at some point you can look at like I node information about a file and automatically figure it out.
ReNoise had that sort of just here's a bunch of numbers and letters and dashes.
But over time yeah I think they did a good job of making it a little less obtuse to get into.
I'm looking forward to dipping my toe into the world finally.
I haven't pre-ordered it but I guess it's too late for that.
The first order is just started shipping this weekend from what I read.
I don't know how long it's going to be for the next batch.
I know this first batch is completely sold out and mostly going to influencers and the like.
I mean I guess there's a part of me that's also like I kind of hope a bunch of these end up on Reverb like hey this is a great new thing and trackers aren't for everyone.
I think it's inevitable which is exactly what's happening with the Polisaur 23 right now.
I'm actually going to bring that up in a point as a point so it kind of ties in with something I was going to say.
Not to branch off of the poly end just yet but I think it's related.
I think it's an overhyped flashy new toy that like all these so-called YouTube influencers and such are going to buy just to ride the hype train and get their video out there first.
And people are going to ride that hype train and buy them all up but yeah it's not going to be for everyone just like the Polisaur isn't for everyone.
A lot of people have been receiving their orders over the last three months and already multiple units have popped up on muffs and Reverb for sale.
If you're selling quickly I bought one of them also because I ran out of patience to get mine directly from Vlad.
Yeah a lot of people posting them up was not much of an explanation other than oh just decided this wasn't for me.
And like I saw people commenting on Instagram and even on muffs about how it's kind of a complicated machine that you have to patch from scratch.
You know and it's like it seems the cater towards the noisier industrial soundscape more than any other genre and it's like well no shit.
Like I don't think Vlad ever said otherwise you know it's like it's every demo that has come out since he announced it has been like of that variety.
It's definitely a machine made for someone who wants to sit there and meticulously craft strange rhythmic noise.
You know like right it's why I'm so excited for it you know but people that are getting it and wanting to produce like a techno track with it.
It's like why there's dozens of machines out there that would do that way more efficiently.
Whereas the strong points with the Paulsar are things you're not going to find in those machines when it comes to like making strange you know rhythmic noisy hard stuff.
So I can imagine a scenario where someone's seeing these videos looking at this reading the specs all in go I can make a slightly different 909 or I can make a slightly different 808 and this will be that thing that sounds slightly different than the standard issue machinery
without realizing that that is not what this machine was made for. This is not going to get you that slight variation of a popular sound. This is until a different machine.
Yeah if you're buying that thing to go normal you're definitely fucking up. You know there's no way near like get a TR8S. Yeah be done with it.
Yeah I think too many people are going to be buying it for what they imagine it can do and not for what it is advertised as doing.
I think we're up to number around 1200 now that has shipped out. So that's a fair amount. How many of those are going to pop up in the next couple months.
I'm curious to see as used you know I mean second hand market. Yeah. My pre-order number was in the 1600s range and I was told that's still like three to I think four months out.
So I ran out of patience and bought one of these second hand ones that should be arriving on Tuesday, so I'm stupidly excited to get my hands on it finally.
Next episode we do I'll probably have a lot to say about it. But yeah I feel like the poly end is probably the same type of machine.
People are getting swept up in the hype around it. I guess that's influencers doing their job.
Yeah I think they're both machines too that you're going to probably the love of them or hate them.
Yeah they're probably isn't too much middle ground. Especially with the pulse are like it's going to be your thing and hopefully you're not trying to do like a whole like you know a beza beach techno house song that they just using it for like that one weird thing or maybe going to sample the shit out of it or I kind of hope maybe they are and then I'll get into that music.
I just said that and would love to hear it. Yeah. Anyone out there who gets one that is your challenge.
That's your challenge Greg. Yeah.
Yeah I've already seen criticism online of the poly end people saying like you know complain about its limited memory and this and that and it's like this isn't a workstation this isn't an NPC you know this is tracker in a box like it's meant to be used as such.
And again that's what that's what that's why trackers were popular in the 90s when a computer didn't have a ton of memory or and didn't have this right capabilities that it has now you could use a tracker to create really interesting stuff with very limited resources.
So I mean to look at and go well doesn't have all of these features that I'm accustomed to now is like well again that's not what a tracker was it's not what a tracker excels at this is the wrong instrument for you.
Yeah I mean honestly that's kind of what's appealing to me about it is sure it's it's limitations you know like I feel like that's what I need right now like the way my brain is working at this moment.
I need something that kind of funnels me down a path that I can explore you know I mean it's otherwise I just get overwhelmed by all the different paths I can take.
And that's the thing about the 301 in a way too is actually a lot more limiting than you would think because you run out of resources more quickly than you would expect in some ways and it's like there isn't like as much it's not even nearly close to like a max MSP or something like that but it is there are a lot of different
things you can do with it but I do it's just recently that I've started to enjoy the limits of that module and thinking like oh okay like I can use this much and you can load like a shit ton of a wave like audio memory and stuff like that but it's definitely limited like what's
you start loading effects like you're done you're gonna not have as many delays as you would maybe you know not more than a couple of them so it's kind of nice in that regard.
And like certain stuff like it can do wave table stuff and I think it sounds great but I still don't use it for that a lot just because like I've other wave table oscillators so they're just sitting there that are so much easier to do configure you know or there's no
configuration to get it to do that so it comes down to like the quick saves I use a lot if like I develop something and it's just after a while you end up like doing the same like stuff or just it becomes very intuitive to know how to like tie one of the internal envelopes to something or
like the ability to modulate it is the real like awesome point like just being able to modulate like every control and having all those like 12 16 inputs is the beast.
And I'm sure at this point there are commands that you're going to use often and you're gonna be you're gonna get muscle memory and intuition to be able to just quickly do that without thinking yeah there's some fringe stuff that's on the end that maybe you should like remember what the
you know remember how to do it but like the stuff you're gonna do all the time you're eventually going to just out of habit do with them.
I guess the reason I'm bringing this up is because like I was talking to Russ from Eveton we were talking about Duluth he also has one and at one point he called it the E-max of groove boxes.
Oh yeah he said that to me the other night yeah I was in the second he said that I was like that is a hundred percent correct as a as a huge fan of E-max but there is that thing of if you try to just absorb absolutely everything about E-max or the deluge you're going to be overwhelmed you're not going to remember everything right do the stuff that you do all the time and know that there's this stuff on the edge that you can do and maybe you don't remember off the top of your head or you may have to look that up or you know it might take you a second to remember.
But the bread and butter not some bolts stuff that you're doing all the time that is intuitive and you were just going to like you know after using it for some amount of time you're going to start flowing with it you're going to start not thinking about it you're just going to do it.
Yeah kind of like just like an NPC do like it's same thing like you can't there you'll never use all the shit in there because any more of the modern ones too are just fucking loaded.
Yeah that's what's appealing to me of the tracker it looks like something that I could easily quickly find my flow with you know I mean to do just a few things that I want a sampler for like I don't use samplers too much these days.
Like even when I end up sampling my own stuff I get frustrated that that chunk of audio is now frozen in time you know and like right doesn't feel like alive anymore it feels like I can't tweak it whereas when I'm doing things live in the modular like even something as simple as like a hi hat I can have it mutating in so many different ways in real time you know that you can't really do with a sampler.
Absolutely. I mean that's at least with most samplers you know I mean you don't have that much flexibility with it unless you start like using granular functions and things like that you know whereas like the polyen looks a little fluid you know like I can sample things right from the modular into it seems like I'll have options to mangle it and sequence it you know in a way that's satisfying to me and doesn't feel
frozen in time it doesn't feel like dead audio to me it feels like something that is still very much alive and I can sculpt with it.
That's what I want to achieve with you know what I mean yeah totally I think especially the way that they have like the control lane setup which is much nicer a different experience than what I remember from like a fast tracker or something like that or a mod tracker back in the day and like the way you can just like
quickly have like curves that go from different values and like a sign shit on multiple lanes like it seems like like you were saying earlier like just a nice fucking interface for using trackers because I was the same I never liked trackers I started to use trackers and was like cool I'm going to be a DJ because fuck this and then it was only like
step sequencers that were like oh no step sequencers on hardware you can do stuff with this and the storam stuck on but it's the same thing.
I've always been a big visual person you know like the first program that got me way into it was a reason you know and recycle and rebirth and shit like that because of the interface you know it was very visual and made sense to me it didn't look like a spreadsheet like a track does you know what I mean like I looked at that and I was just like what the fuck and yeah I mean how dare you.
Didn't want my music making experience to remind me of working on a PowerPoint project you know what I mean.
I remember when I was growing up to my friend like Chris could just like fly on fast tracker and he would just make like the best fucking music because he was already a piano player and shit so it was like I'm done with this this you I'm obviously broken for this program compared to him.
But yeah it's 600 bucks so like the investment isn't too terrible you know I think that's a pretty fair price for what you get it.
Yeah for what it does that's a I would have I was actually expecting it to be more once I saw what all it could do.
So yeah like that's like what the same price as a digitact and it's way less versatile.
Digitact is more now.
No shit on a price a little.
Yeah the pre-orders are supposed to start shipping in August I guess for the next like major batch that isn't dedicated to influencers and people like that.
Real quick Digitact is now 750 bucks.
Yeah that's kind of insane to me.
Yeah same here because that's way more than what I paid for mine.
Digitact to me still seems like a device that should be sold for like 4.99.
Yeah I agree.
I didn't want to derail this conversation in the Digitact.
I'm just trying to compare it to other small sampling units out there right now that aren't full blown workstations or whatever.
I just like those fucking keys on the Digitact that's the main thing I missed is this fucking keys.
They were just nice.
I missed it turning on.
That was cool when it turned on.
Yeah when it actually worked it was reliable for a couple days.
See you mentioned Dave you were going to do a bunch of DIY stuff and you haven't yet.
What was it you were going to do with the Alexa?
Yeah the Alexa which does actually have a relationship with the Digitact because this was when Digitact did not have any way to save.
It was over a year of not being able to save anything.
So I started looking around.
That's right.
I remember there was no Sisex dump nothing.
So I was like I got frustrated.
I'm like I've been working with this too much and I really paranoid about losing all of it.
So I just started looking around and the LXR was something I'd used yours and so yeah I bought the kit of it.
It's been sitting in my basement.
Did you get the 60 knobs expansion?
I got the CV expansion and I got the Erica metal enclosure for it.
Nice.
And so when all of this quarantine started I was like this is it.
I'm going to actually buckle down fucking finish this thing.
I still want to do it but I when work is done I'm like what do I want to do?
I want to go I just want to turn all these machines on that are already built or already working.
I've been having a hard time getting motivated to do DIY stuff during this.
But yeah this is this this quarantine or shelter in place.
That is one thing I've been really kind of disappointed in not not getting done.
Especially the LXR.
Oh yeah you'll you'll love it.
I had that little burst of like activity where it was like a couple weeks in I was like okay.
I'm going to focus on this and it felt great to build that Surge BCFQ because I wanted it for so long and it was just like super satisfying because it worked perfectly.
There were no issues or anything it was a fun build.
And that got me going enough that I put the Strahkel Brulew together the Thonk one because I was like okay I want this and those are definitely like I'm so glad I built both of them should have built them earlier because I fucking that filter is probably like it's just like super satisfying because it worked perfectly.
I had to pick one filter of my module that would be the one I would keep and the Strahkel is just as much as I expected to use it for the extreme stuff.
I really like just using it just to saturate some shit and like give it a little bit of a like it's great with piston Honda kind of reduces some of the thinness and gives a little more weight for some patch.
I'm the exact same way with mine and the same path to of like this is going to be my fuck I can just have a noise set it's just this and the noisy end of it is a little one note.
It's actually kind of disappointing if you get it for that swelching because it kind of just makes everything sound like that.
But if you turn it down a little bit or you have like a little more deft hand with it and also just talking with the inputs and input and output levels is way more.
It's really satisfying and gets like like you said just turns like something kind of land and just gives it that beef that it didn't have before.
Yeah because that's what I built it and was like oh shit it makes like this crazy sound and then in half an hour I was like wow that's the crazy sound it makes like this is kind of a fucking like softy here.
And then patch it up again like the next day and was just using it just run shit through and I'm like okay this is a little different than I expected but it's still very close to the mark for like making satisfying sounds come out you know.
It's just another thing to dirty stuff up and running it like post and before the opto disc and dark matter now it's like okay I have like a nice like feedback of or like matrix of like distortions to fuck with which has been super, super awesome to have a little more color in there.
That's awesome and it was a kit that you can check off your list.
Yeah you have two kits down of like the backlog so there are I think four or five left now and some of them are like ah like that was at the road that the that mode clone the raging boards just like yeah exactly where it's like based on your feedback and
I don't know if I never build that that's one I'll be cool it's just not building.
It was a simple build so I don't really consider it like a huge waste of time that may have been the nail in the coffin of me ever given Moog any kind of like consideration and I even went into it knowing like well this is a clone so maybe it does something a little bit different maybe like maybe this will be the thing that kind of turns me around.
I gave it like a month.
Well there's apparently like some shit in there and we have the earliest ones that's really easy to fuck up or flawed and there have been like four revisions of that module since the ones that we got.
So I was reading like a build guide because I was like oh how hard is this thing and the one was like yeah you might get this part fault here like fuck this part up it's very common to do that and people think it's broken or just like not that good and I'm like oh that sounds like I don't know like that again just maybe like not want to fuck with it.
That might explain it yeah because one mean Dave built those like he didn't listen to his yet but I put mine through its paces like that day and like I compared it to the demos that I heard of it and to the original that it's supposed to be a clone of and I was like this sounds nothing like that sounds like kind of trash and I told Dave and then like he got back he's like yeah that's just very underwhelming.
I think that lasted like all of a week and then I flipped it.
Right now I just really want to finish that resident EQ by the end of the summer sometime and then want to be a system 100 envelopes I have because I just want the full pair especially now that I have the system 810 which like kind of begs for those clone envelopes to pair up with it as modulators
because the one works fucking fantastic with it. Is it going to be a rough build or is it like is it a pretty straightforward build?
I looked through the guide and it seemed as straightforward as the other random source one that I built which was like very that was an easy very straightforward well documented build and they everything was like individually bagged by Thonk so they made it so you didn't even have to check out which resistors were which so it was pretty simple.
Have we sung the praises of Thonk yet? Oh man just for even just for bagging those fucking resistors is worth like everything right there.
Not having to separate those out by those tiny little stripes of color.
So yeah I don't know how many get motivated. I mean I feel like my collection of neuroses are changing over time over this quarantine.
How shitty I was feeling it you know two months ago is different than how shitty I'm feeling now and I don't know maybe I'm gonna wake up tomorrow and just just be like I'm just gonna grab a soldering iron and just put this together.
That's how it was for me I got this like I'm gonna do this I'm gonna fucking finish this one thing I'm gonna finish the fuck out of it just to like escape everything right now and that's what it was it was out of nowhere.
Maybe I have that look forward to a mild psychotic breakdown where I started building things.
Fingers crossed.
Yeah I didn't want to dip into psychology but like hearing you guys describe that type of like impulsiveness it reminds me of what I try to fight fairly often with my bipolarness you know what I mean like that's how I've a function you know like I'm gonna do it.
I don't know I just have this like surge of this need to get shit done things that have been in the back of my brain or just causing me unnecessary anxiety like I'll just scrub the whole house from top to bottom you know I'll fucking do this I'll do that just all these things and get shit done.
Wow we're really in wildly off topic here.
Everything's different.
It really is though like before this started I had very clear goals of what I was trying to work on musically.
Yeah those have all gone out the window over the last three months like I'm not thinking the same way I don't have the same goals creatively for a while kind of like you're saying Nick I just I couldn't even really think to bring myself to work on music like it just it seemed insignificant to some of the other things that were
weighing on my brain that's a perfect way to say yeah you know I mean it just didn't seem like my top priority but over the last couple weeks there's been like a rekindling of creativity in my brain and I find myself going down paths that were definitely different than what I was trying to do three months ago
or six months ago I find myself more on a industrial path again fast tempo rhythmic noise driven more I don't want to say simple but less overly complicated rhythmic structures like you know I mean like kind of scaling it back I want to make the sounds more interesting but the rhythm is a little simpler
like I don't know just all these things that are like complete opposite of where I was going a few months ago so it's interesting to see what this has all done to my brain and is kind of pushing me in a different creative direction
I absolutely understand what you're saying because then I've sent you guys things I've been working on last couple weeks and when I listen to them it almost doesn't sound like something I made
right yeah like I'll listen to them again the next morning go I I remember making this but this isn't what it sounded like while I was making it
which is like where I'm at to I was like like Greg said I was like going down a certain path and I'm like oh this path makes sense I'm like working on this and then this stuff has changed it to where it's like oh no this is actually the only thing you can work on is this different thing and it's the only thing and it's kind of like
a different thing than I'm used to hearing but it's also kind of refreshing because it's like very simple to approach it because it's like oh this is the only thing you can do right now so just don't think about other shit and it's it's some interesting stuff so far a little simpler like Greg was saying and I'm kind of still driving there's some like real relief that I'm feeling from making that stuff so as long as I feel that relief I'm going to keep trying to
flow through that or whatever yeah a lot of what I'm feeling to is like and this might not be the right word but I feel like there was a subtlety that I used to try to strive for that is I feel it's just gone.
I think maybe like ornamentation you'd like less like maybe simpler brush strokes you know like less like fucking fanciness to some shit and that's kind of how I've been feeling to like just like I'd rather hit you in the head with the hammer than kind of like I don't know I'm failing an analogy right now.
But like being as direct as possible.
Yeah that's exactly how I've been feeling is that thing of like that subtle this that nuance like when I when I feel leaning towards that I feel like that's or you know like I feel like it's just like do we even have time for nuance anymore.
Dude that's that's that's the fucking feel of it it's like do you even like have time to fucking do this that's weird.
Yeah no that nails it Dave I would say like like I was saying I was trying to not make things so overly complicated you know I mean I think time is a big issue there like I feel like I feel like I kind of need to create just for my own personal sanity.
I'm not going to get lost in all the over complications that my brain can do I want to I want something that I want to create something that is rewarding to me and more immediate you know and not just bogged down into details too much but like something that is just more satisfying on the surface.
Yeah I feel that for sure. We had a list before we started talking.
Yeah my list kind of went kind of branches off from what we were saying there though like the whole not leaving the house for three months and being on edge and worrying about myself and everyone I give a shit about getting sick and whatnot as my brain going down some weird paths.
For fucking sure man yeah.
One of those past kept making me think about my old methods of working on shit no clue why because I haven't worked on music like that in a long time but I was kind of getting nostalgic for like when I used to just sit there and you know discover things you know like I didn't really have a goal
at first when I would work on music when I was just getting into it I would just it was just an experiment and hopefully you would stumble across a happy accident along the way.
Simple times you know right just venturing down avenues using whatever cracked software happened to come out that day or whatever new VST came out and thinking about like those old ways reminded me of an old process I used to use which kind of made me buy two purchases it was the only two things I've bought during the last three months
that was Ross and Pan Hormonium module and propeller heads reason eleven.
Oh I'm sorry what yeah reason I didn't expect that.
Yeah okay so there's two things it's unexpected a that you bought it and be there are eleven.
Yes I mean I dropped out I dropped out at like one or one point two where they added the the green synthesizer.
Yes one point two was my favorite for a long time that was before things got off the rails one point two was my jam for a long time eventually I got into I think it was version three or four whatever one introduced the other one
whatever one introduced the screamer distortion module that kind of convinced me to upgrade because that's in my opinion still a great distortion unit and then after that just kind of fell off track I can't remember if that was three or four but I didn't upgrade really
since then I knew it was getting a little bloated a little weirder I knew things like rewire are now gone which is strange to me and things like that.
Yeah because I guess rewire isn't 64 bit compatible which sucks because like rewire worked it did what it did well.
Can you just load VSTs directly into it now?
You can not sure why you would want to but you can and you can also in version eleven load reason as a VST in your DAW which that was one of the main things that was appealing to me to give this a go because sitting there remembering like the days when I would just work in nothing but reason for hours on end day after day
there was a point in time where I knew it like the back of my hand you know the front the back I knew where to plug shit what I liked what weird combinations to make strange things it can only be loaded as a VST three which the DAWs that I still use because I don't like upgrading can't do
so I haven't even had a chance to try that yet and that was also how I discovered the rewire doesn't exist anymore it's kind of going crazy trying to figure out how to rewire this thing and they're like yeah that hasn't existed for years I'm like
so but yeah like the first two non releases for Prometheus burning were like almost entirely reason like those were just all reason experiments that was the the lame or demo and the cathode albums which somehow made it around the soul seek networks and I think I have CDs of those
yeah dude I don't even remember how many I made my brother Sam brought this up the other day while we were bullshit and he was talking about how he's like collecting vinyl now and he has also a CD collection and he found like the old demos of my stuff that I gave him like you know 20 years ago
and he was like reading them off to me he's like oh yeah here's the lame lame or demo with the cover here's cathode with the cover here's the valve cycle demo you game I was like holy shit like these were all reason tracks for the most part you know I was like that's cool that people still have those you know
those were the ones that were like my first like I felt like I achieved a vision you know with it like an album you know like that was the precursor to like the actual releases that came later with Nikki and stuff like influenza and beyond repair and all that jazz but like that was mostly
me just fucking around in reason like I love the program so I was kind of excited to see what has changed and get back into it a little bit here with version 11 because it seems to be like a defining version you know like there's a lot of things that
are new in it they finally implemented something that's kind of like a algorithmic drum sequencer it's just called beat map and it uses like graphical maps that you can adjust the what's the word the like fill ratio for each it's basically mutable instruments grids
right right in reason and it's a little more versatile because you there's like more rhythmic selection and sweet spots that you can find and you can lock it like you have your four channels which typically is just like you know your kick your snare your hat whatever but you get the four tracks and like if you find an algorithmic spot that you like for like say the kick you can lock that and then switch those
and then switch the map around for the remaining ones that are like still unlocked so you can do some real interesting shit with it really appealing to me that and like the VST options were the main reasons why I bought it and I was super excited to get back into it and like I spent maybe two nights
and I was just sticking around with it and it's just insane to me what they have done to this program in the in the good or bad bad it's somewhere along the line over the last like decade it seems like propeller heads decided that they didn't want reason to just be what it is which was
it was a rack of hardware emulations yeah since it always had a thin sound but like it was a great interface the instruments reversal good shit
and I remember every time I would upgrade my little penny and one thirty three box to like the next generation and like it would be able to I could add like three more instruments in my reason rack at a time I was like who you know like shit's getting complicated now like like six mousstrom
one patch wow you know but you know obviously times have changed the fundamentals of reason is still the same like all the base instruments are still there it's still on the thin sounding side of things but like they've added a lot more instruments and you have rack extensions now that
element of it like that mechanic is great still is always was but it's buried under so much bloat now and like weird things that don't need to be there like it's trying to be a full blown like da and my only question is why like that was never what reason was strong in
they almost were actively like the opposite of that there was like there was cubase there was logic and able to start like able to start like gain the sort of like foothold and reason was the we're not going to do that this is something different and it existed outside of a dog
it was virtual gear you know the sequencer was nice and basic you know and that was cool you could do your automation lanes things like that it wasn't overly complicated if you even wanted to use the sequencer like most of the time I would open it up in Cubase or FL studio or even like audio mulch
as you know rewire or maybe it's plug the dual I can't remember is either audio mulch or plug but I would open up in one of those as you know just a rewire instrument and it worked I was able to hop in do what I needed to do and get shit recorded
maybe I'm just an idiot now I don't know but like I couldn't even figure out how to like record chunks of audio in there like things were just convoluted it auto routes things to places you can't see to a mixer that's hidden in some other fucking panel
it's tries to auto group things in weird ways like it's lost its way it was lost its way hardcore in my opinion I mean I'm sure people still do great things with it people I'm sure very passionate about it but like it was just annoying to me it's not the reason that I remember at all
and I feel like its strengths would still be just as an instrument like I almost wish you could just get like a one rack like reason light thing like I think they do offer light but it's just like limited in like your instruments and things like that but it's still dealing with like tons of bloat that you don't need
I was messing around with the Rex player loading some of my old you know Rex files that I created for it still compatible they still load and the Rex is still the Rex it's still great at what it does that's amazing
yeah so like I don't know man like I wish I could just load the instruments and not have to worry about all the weird things that they tried to work into this to make it a doll
bummer because like if they had stuck with their like their original idea and evolve down that path instead of going well how do we compete in the marketplace the 2020 version of reason that could have existed could have been astounding
yeah is it just like too tempting for them to add another feature you know what else of the dev teams gonna work on like oh fucking Ableton does this you know just like logic did where that's like practically just like Ableton now the the sequencer is like a super cramped
unintuitive version of Cubase meets Ableton now right oh and it's like why like it's trying to be way too much I don't know who asked for that like I don't know it's strange to me it may not be what I could learn it over time but like it wasn't inspiring me to bother you know it was just kind of like if I feel like you'd need three monitors just to make things fit in a way that did you know what else is going on
in a way that didn't drive me insane you know like the way like auto compact things things are tucked into this unseen panel on the right you got your sequencer that's all cramped into the bottom you can't really see your rack and your sequencer at the same time so you'd need like one monitor dedicated to your rack
the other for like the mixer and then the other for the sequencer you know it's just like a cluster fuck we need to make the you know that people make the not my president shirt we need to make not my reason
not my reason ten other people that agree with us
I wish they would just offer some of their instruments as VSTs like if you could just get like the rex you know things like that or the mousstrom I would prefer that just put that in my door instead of fucking around with like being locked into this weird
I don't even know what to call this weird world now that is reason 11 so yeah that was a kind of a bust I realized that nostalgia for reason is long dead it's never going to be what it was for me
you're not using it at all anymore you just gave up I mean I'm going to try to keep using it to some extent I spent the money on it so I'm going to try to get my value out of it
should I segue into the panormonium yeah DVA to far off I would like to hear about the panormonium so this is the first Rossum device that I've ever owned
we've talked about Rossum devices in the past mostly in the form of reviewing NAM videos have any of us had any Rossum stuff before this
I have not no I'm surprised I figured one of you two would have had like one of the samplers or something new okay all right
I'm the first of the crew to get a Rossum device I guess it's true so yeah I bought the panormonium kind of with like a specific purpose in mind
and I guess to elaborate on that I need to harken back again to the time that I was thinking about when I was working on the Beyond Repair album for Prometheus Burning
I had a shit ton of sounds that I had recorded when I was working on that like found sounds and stuff that I recorded through my shitty microphone at the time of like metallic scratching banging on metallic objects things like that
I had a whole library at that point of sounds that I was trying to work into the album and I kind of couldn't I couldn't find the right way to mix them in they were all monophonic my microphone sucked
and they just sounded like someone banging on a pot and to achieve microphone it was I was struggling to make it sound like I had the sound in my head like I was kind of at a standstill with it and I knew there was like sample libraries out there that kind of already did what I wanted but I didn't want to go down the mainstream sample route
that just wasn't what I wanted to do I was trying to make my own sounds so I had like an aha moment where I started to route these sounds through vocoders and certain reactor ensembles and native instruments effects like special delay and things like that and I was able to kind of
re-synthesize these flat one-dimensional organic sounds and mutate them into something that's was more three-dimensional and unrecognizable blending like organic percussion with the like electronic chaos that I was already had recorded for this album
so that was something I did for Beyond Repair I know wasn't like all that original I'm sure people have been doing that long before I was but it was a big moment for me you know what I mean like I was able to mutate these sounds make them sound more electronic
and I used that method really heavily on the retribution record too and I kind of stopped doing it for a long time like I just kind of fell off track with that type of fucking around but recently like I was making sounds in the modular again some metallic like FM metallic percussion stuff some from my old sample libraries
and I found myself wanting to like be able to do that again but I don't have any hardware vocoders and I'm not really using software right now so it's kind of like stuck and I found myself starting to look into like hardware vocoding things like that
didn't really find anything that I wanted or find anything that like went into the spectral domains like some of those programs that I used to totally forgot that the Panharmonium existed and like I just kind of stumbled upon it in modular grid and I was like oh yeah I was like this thing kind of does exactly what I'm looking for something to do
it even has a drum mode which is it's like able to quickly adapt to the transients and not like slew the material too well like it's really good for running yeah it's really good for like running percussive elements through or like a breakbeat or something like that
it like kicks it up into a higher territory I don't fully understand how it works I don't fully understand how anything works behind the scenes with this module it's it's not a vocoder per se but it does vocoding like things
where like you can run anything through it and you're basically resynthesizing it and you can balance the wet and dry where it needs to be you can blur it you can add feedback to it you can take it up to octaves down to octaves you can focus the frequency of where like it should be focusing on to generate harmonic content
so you can like dial it in very versatile way more versatile than most of the software was that I was using to do that specific type of duty
so so far I've only had like a couple nights with it but I'm really digging it
and you can go in like the opposite direction too like you can take a single like percussive sound and like blur it feedback it the whole nine yards and turn it into like a drone that you can then sequence into like melodies it's really crazy
and it's a very easy module but yeah having a lot of fun with it it's it also falls in line with what I've been looking for lately in regards to like manglers that don't rely fully on distortion
you know I mean like I've been trying to use things like clouds and things like that to mangle sound without just a storting sound to transform it into something else and I feel like this is this nails it right on the head
how many channels is it like full stereo in and out or is it stereo stereo yeah it has a couple different stereo modes which I haven't really screwed around with too much I've just been using it like the default
but yeah it's versatile in that regard there's a couple key combo things you can do I haven't even dipped into those yet I've just been using like the base mode on the surface you only key combo I've been doing is the one that puts it in the drum mode like you have to hold a key twist a knob and puts it in the drum mode
yeah everything aside from that type of stuff is all up front very easy to dial in just a lot of fun to play around with it's kind of big for being a one trick kind of pony you know for me wait how big is it I'm an HP
I don't remember off the top of my head let me look
yeah most of the Ross and ones are pretty big 26 HP pretty sizable but I like the fact that it has a lot of functionality that's up front you know I mean so if all that was hidden behind the scenes and like or like in a menu I would probably not have bought it
yeah I like the fact that there's no menu I can see the main controls tweak them as I need to do and even has like waveform select and things like that it's pretty interesting
it's exactly what I wanted like an old school method that I can reproduce now in the year 2020 in my modular you know I mean like just mangling sounds resynthesizing them from scratch bringing something organic into the world of electronic
so you like the like overall sound quality of it so far I think it sounds great yeah like the quality of the module itself like even the feel of it seems top notch I see why people hold Ross some stuff and high esteem as far as quality goes
it just feels solid you know it works haven't had any issues
you know I got it new I ordered it through a perfect circuit took advantage of the Memorial Day sale nice so I mean ultimately do you think you're going to keep it?
yeah I think it's a keeper for sure now are you gonna be able to make room for that 301 that you definitely have to get someday?
that's the thing man I have some big modules on the way to like I still have the flux sequencer not the fluxes yeah that's a sizable module
I mean you had one of the biggest modules I've ever seen what was that was it the fib the simulator that was like that was huge enormous module yeah I've been trying to avoid big modules but like between the panharmonium the flux and whatever sampler I end up getting
the system system 8810 module is pretty big and it's it's fucking really nice to use that's an entire voice right whole voice yeah yeah his like whole thing was like I'm gonna design this so it's kind of like what a five view modular feels like and it's just yeah I really dig that thing it's sweet that's large
you you want to discuss that I'm done singing the praises of the panharmonium yeah the system 80 it's kind of the last one on my list actually was um the 10 rather so I saw like I got tricked by instagram in a good way and that he was like oh these are like
they're done basically maybe in a year or two I'll make these again because of parts and covid and everything so it was like alright they're all out and I saw like oh troyp modular has like um at least another couple few left and so I got one fucking totally dig it like had the Joe filter which I've talked about before
why have that yeah you have my old Joe filter I fucking love that filter it's fucking astounding it rules like I'm super glad to have this version back the only thing it doesn't have is it's
low pass only so it's not the high pass or the band pass do you get a 12 and the 24 at least yes there is that it has that because that's pretty crucial it sounds fucking incredible the oscillator is what really surprises me because for an analog oscillator which is like you know after a number of years are like not going to get super surprised it sounds like really fucking quality and like almost like bug brand quality I would say right up there actually and like even though I'm not going to get super surprised
actually and like even the naked oscillator sounds like really satisfying and I've been using it just as like super dope like electro sounds that like really um satisfied that itch like I was considering those fucking barons or clone modules and there's no way I'm getting those now because I'm totally satisfied for like a system 100 clone in my modular and like a nice analog base it fucking rules like in the VCA has like you know enough like it's a mixer to like it's just really nicely featured like
all the CV inputs are mixable and normal to like the real key one of the best things about it is the sub oscillator actually and um you only get it normal as an input into the filter you can't patch it out but a half the time like even like 90% of the time I'd say I'm patching it with the sub oscillator sound because it makes it like super fucking thick and like it also made me realize like that
um SH01A which I still really like it probably won't sell but I don't think I would ever use it um instead of just the uh 810 because it just fucking kills like that bouncy analog like juicy like kind of 101 shit but like classic Roland like a fucking love it it sounds killer
especially like I mentioned earlier with the system X envelopes from frequency central it's like you know the two modulators you kind of want with that the only thing I don't want to do is just like I'm not going to do it
with that the only thing I don't have is an LFO but I've got plenty of other LFOs so it's not even an issue I don't give a fuck with the Roland LFOs sounded like really it's not what Roland was about to me it's about the you know audio path
how many oscillators is it? it's just one just one in the sub so it's mono yeah and you can kind of pick um wait can you pick I don't even can't even remember right now but it's got a nice
pulse width sound gets you like beautiful like 242 kind of sounds um do you have any choices do you have any options with the the the sub oscillator or is it fixed? no I think it's fixed I think it's just a fixed sign maybe a triangle
okay but it's actually one of the first things like I generally hate um salt tooth waves too and I don't use them in music much and this one I've been using like because it sounds really nice to me like I never use it in the virus in other sense
so yeah you don't get much choice with the sub-os you have to select your waveform that's coming out of the output um it's got a nice normal scheme so you don't have to like use many cables if you don't want to
and um it's nice that you can inject like other I'm sending a lot of wave tables to the filter and the VCA for instance and it sounds just as good um as with the standard waveforms so it's but I'm super glad I got it
it's really really good sounding um the tracking's awesome tuning is really nice oh yeah one thing I love the VCO I wish every VCO I had was just like um range selector for the octave and then a tuning that clearly indicates where fucking zero should be
it's not something where I'm always like is that where I should have it to have it be at like a zero or what because I never know I know IntelliJol added that to the Dixie yeah yeah the octave selector and I was like oh I don't need that and now I'm like oh shit I definitely would love that like I've got one of the old Dixie's and I always thought about like man I should actually get that one with the octave selector that's such a nice addition
I'm actually like anti course tune knob now I don't know why the fuck you would ever need it because like if you have a volt proctive input just fucking hook up an offset but for the most part I just want to oscillate it to be like show me how to get it what to what you think in tune is and then give me fucking octave switches and I'm good
I can't think of a negative thing we've said about the system 80 stuff that we've all um that we've all tried over the years their stuff is top fucking notch
yeah I'm huge fan of their stuff like I want more of it personally
I just I wanted to touch upon the flux oh yeah yeah modulation rhythm sequencer I didn't have much to say I just wanted to say that it's insane how well he's been updating the kickstarter pages or the kickstarter page rather
so we still like adding features and stuff like that like every week wow yeah like his last update was yesterday he's 20 updates so far since the project completed Jesus yeah it's it's nuts he's constantly tweaking it showing like the parts that he got in stock he tested a new display gave like in depth analysis between the differences of the old display the new one he's trying to shift it to
like just spot on communication with the backers and total transparency with what is going on behind the scene as you talked about any potential delays based on the pandemic and stuff that's going on with that
not there's like no delays really expect like he managed to get most of the parts in that he needed to get in he's been using the time in between getting the parts to fine tune firmware the whole nine yards
yeah it's just been pretty awesome this is his first kickstarter right yeah and he's really setting a high bar for any that might follow like he's kicking ass and just I'm very happy to have backed its project and not wait for like you know for it to be in stores like I'm glad I got to bear witness to this thing
and I'm just going to be in the fruition you know over time just and be a part of all the you know feedback that he was taken from people see those suggestions and critiques like it
and then actually ended up being implemented in real time we get to see the results
now